## Cascade Reconstruction in IceCube using Convolutional and Generative Neural Networks
### Mirco Huennefeld (TU Dortmund)

A key challenge to the success of high-energy physics experiments such as IceCube is the reliable and accurate reconstruction of events. In IceCube, further challenges arise as the detector is situated at the geographic South Pole where resources are limited.  However, to perform real-time analyses and to issue alerts to telescopes around the world, powerful and fast reconstruction methods are desired. This results in a dilemma as performance is often paired with computational complexity. But even for offline reconstructions, the computational complexity of the most advanced maximum likelihood methods can render these intractable and hence limit the physics potential. Deep neural networks can be extremely powerful and their usage is computationally inexpensive once the networks are trained. These characteristics make a deep learning-based approach an excellent candidate for the application in IceCube.

A reconstruction method based on convolutional architectures and hexagonally shaped kernels is presented. This method has been verified on real data and can significantly increase the reconstruction accuracy while reducing the runtime in comparison to standard reconstruction 
methods in IceCube. Although it can considerably improve the reconstruction performance, the presented CNN-based method has its limitations. In the typical physics use-case, many symmetries, invariances, and prior knowledge exist in the data, which are yet to be exploited by most standard network architectures. An approach using generative neural networks is introduced which has the potential to exploit this knowledge by combining strengths of neural networks and maximum likelihood methods.
