# Steps toward holistic control of particle accelerators with neural networks 
## Auralee Edelen (SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory)

## Abstract 
Particle accelerators are used in a wide array of medical, industrial, and scientific applications, ranging from cancer treatment to understanding fundamental laws of physics. While each of these applications brings with them different operational requirements, a common challenge concerns how to optimally adjust controllable settings of the accelerator to obtain the desired beam characteristics. For example, at highly flexible user facilities like the LCLS and FACET-II, requests for a wide array custom beam configurations must be met in a limited window of time to ensure the success of each experiment — a task which can be difficult both in terms of tuning time and the final achievable solution quality, especially for novel or non-standard setups. At present, the operation of most accelerator facilities relies heavily on manual tuning by highly-skilled human operators, sometimes with the aid of simplified physics models and local optimization algorithms. As a complement to these existing tools, approaches based on machine learning are poised to enhance our ability to achieve higher-quality beams, fulfill requests for custom beam parameters more quickly, and aid the development of novel operating schemes. Focusing on neural network based approaches, I will discuss proof-of-principle studies that point toward the potential of machine learning in this regard, highlight open questions and challenges, and give an outlook on some of the future pathways toward bringing these techniques more fully into operation of accelerators. These improvements could increase the scientific output of user facilities and enable new capabilities by tuning a wider range of machine settings, as well as exploiting subtle sensitivities that may otherwise go unutilized. They could also help us to meet the modeling and tuning challenges that become more acute as we push toward the more difficult-to-achieve beam parameters that are desired for future accelerator applications (e.g. higher beam energies and intensities, higher stability, and extreme adjustments of the beam shape in phase space).


## Bio
Auralee is a Panofsky Fellow at SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, where she works on developing machine learning based approaches for modeling and control of particle accelerators. She arrived at SLAC as a research associate in 2018. During her graduate studies, Auralee worked with Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory on early proof-of-principle studies in applying modern neural network based approaches to particle accelerators. Auralee also has been active in the  particle accelerator community with regard to education and promotion of machine learning, including, for example, helping to organize and provide tutorials for several workshops on machine learning for particle accelerator applications.
