# Intersections of AI/ML and Chemistry in Catalyst Design and Discovery
## Zachary Ulissi (UC Davis)
  
## Abstract 

Summary: Increasing computational sophistication and resources can enable a larger and more integrated role of theory in the discovery and understanding of new materials. This process has been slower to infiltrate surface science and catalysis than the field of bulk inorganic materials due to additional scientific complexity of modeling the interface. Most catalyst studies start in a data-poor regime where the material of interest is unrelated to previous to studies (new structure, composition etc) or the computational methods are incompatible with previous studies (different exchange-correlation functionals, methods, etc). Efficient methods to quickly define, schedule, and organize necessary simulations are thus important and enable the application of online design of experiments approaches. I will discuss on-going work and software development to enable data science methods in catalysis including open datasets for the community.  These large datasets enable the use of graph convolutional models for surface properties and the uncertainty in these methods can be carefully calibrated.   Finally, I will describe applications of our approach to ordered bimetallic alloy catalysts, with applications to several electrochemical catalyst discovery efforts including CO2 reduction, oxygen reduction, and water splitting chemistry. 

  
## Bio
Zachary Ulissi is an Assistant Professor in Chemical Engineering at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh PA. He did his undergraduate work in Chemical Engineering and Physics at the University of Delaware, a Masters in Applied Mathematics at Churchill College, Cambridge, and his PhD in Chemical Engineering at MIT funded by the DOE CSGF fellowship. His PhD research at MIT focused on the the application of systems engineering methods to understand selective nanoscale carbon nanotube devices and sensors working with Michael Strano and Richard Braatz. Prof. Ulissi did his postdoctoral work at Stanford with Jens Nørskov where he worked on machine learning techniques to simplify complex catalyst reaction networks and discover new catalysts. Current research interests include the design of high-throughput computational systems for surface science and catalysis, as well as the development of machine learning models and design of experiments processes to accelerate the discovery process.  Methods include both all-atom classical (MD) and electronic (DFT) simulations techniques.
