# Deep Learning Production Capabilities at NERSC
## Steven Farrell, Mustafa Mustafa (NERSC)

## Abstract 
Deep Learning is increasingly being used for scientific problems which require large scale computing resources. High performance computing centers are adapting to accommodate these new kinds of workloads which can differ significantly from traditional HPC simulation workloads. NERSC supports and enables deep learning workflows by providing an optimized software stack and by supporting users to deploy their applications effectively and productively. In this presentation we will describe NERSC’s production capabilities for scientific deep learning applications, including details of the software stack, system performance with extensive benchmarking, and workflow solutions to enable productive science. In addition, we will discuss our outlook for the future of AI at NERSC on the upcoming Perlmutter supercomputer and beyond.


## Bios
Steven Farrell is a Machine Learning Engineer at NERSC. He supports scientific deep learning workflows on HPC systems through software development, benchmarking, user support, and training. His research interests include applications of deep learning to high energy physics, generative modeling, and applications of learning on structured data such as graphs. Steve is co-chair of the MLPerf HPC working group. He was a member of the ATLAS experiment at CERN for many years, first during his Ph.D studies at UC Irvine and then as a postdoc at Berkeley Lab working on software development and machine learning applications for analysis and simulation.
  
Mustafa Mustafa is a Machine Learning Engineer at NERSC supercomputing center. His current interests are in deep learning optimization at scale and data-driven physics modeling (spatio-temporal generative models for surrogate modeling, generative model training dynamics and application to scientific problems). He enjoys communicating science and lecturing on deep learning and how it works. Mustafa's background is in experimental high energy nuclear physics, he obtained his Ph.D. from Purdue University and was a Postdoctoral Fellow at the Nuclear Science Division at Berkeley Lab.
