# Intrinsiccomputation and physics-based machine learning for emergentself-organization in far-from-equilibrium systems
## Adam Rupe (UC Davis)
  
## Abstract 
Coherent structures formspontaneously in far-from-equilibrium spatiotemporal systems and are foundat all spatial scales in natural phenomena from laboratory hydrodynamicflows and chemical reactions to ocean and atmosphere dynamics.Phenomenologically, they appear as key components that organize macroscopicdynamical behaviors. Unlike their equilibrium and near-equilibriumcounterparts, there is no general theory to predict what patterns andstructures may emerge in far-from-equilibrium systems. Each system behavesdifferently; details and history matter. The complex behaviors that emergecannot be explicitly described mathematically, nor can they be directlydeduced from the governing equations (e.g. what is the mathematicalexpression for a hurricane, and how can you derive it from the equations ofa general circulation climate model?). It is thus appealing to bring theinstance-based data-driven models of machine learning to bear on theproblem. Supervised learning models have been the most successful, but theyrequire ground-truth training labels which do not exist forfar-from-equilibrium structures. Unsupervised models that leverage physicalprinciples of self-organization are required. To this end we will makeconnections between structural organization and intrinsic computation tomotivate the use of physics-based unsupervised models called local causalstates. As local models they are capable of capturing structures ofarbitrary shape and size in a visually interpretable manner, due to theshared coordinate geometry between observable spacetime fields and theirassociated latent local causal state fields. We will show the local causalstates can capture patterns in cellular automata models as generalizedspacetime symmetries and coherent structures as localized deviations fromthese generalized symmetries. To demonstrate their applicability toreal-world systems, we show the utility of the local causal states forextracting coherent structures in simulations and observations of complexfluid flows, including promising results highlighting extreme weatherevents in the water vapor field of the CAM5.1 climate model. These resultsrequire high-performance computing, and we will briefly describe how wewere able to process almost 90TB in under 7 minutes end-to-end on 1024Haswell nodes of Cori using a distributed implementation in Python.

  
## Bio
Adam Rupe is a PhD candidate atthe University of California Davis. His research interests center oncomplex dynamical systems, including theoretical aspects and data-drivenapproaches for applications to real-world problems. He was lead author onProject DisCo, which was chosen for an HPC Innovation and Excellent Awardby HPC User Forum and Hyperion Research.
