# Superconducting Radio-Frequency Cavity Fault Classification Using Machine Learning at Jefferson Laboratory
## Christopher Tennant (Jefferson Laboratory)

## Abstract 
We report on the development of machine learning models for classifying C100 superconducting radio-frequency (SRF) cavity faults in the Continuous Electron Beam Accelerator Facility (CEBAF) at Jefferson Lab. CEBAF is a continuous-wave recirculating linac utilizing 418 SRF cavities to accelerate electrons up to 12 GeV through 5-passes. Of these, 96 cavities (12 cryomodules) are designed with a digital low-level RF system configured such that a cavity fault triggers waveform recordings of 17 RF signals for each of the 8 cavities in the cryomodule. Subject matter experts (SME) are able to analyze the collected time-series data and identify which of the eight cavities faulted first and classify the type of fault. This information is used to find trends and strategically deploy mitigations to problematic cryomodules. However manually labeling the data is laborious and time-consuming. By leveraging machine learning, near real-time – rather than post-mortem – identification of the offending cavity and classification of the fault type has been implemented. We discuss the development and performance of the ML models as well as valuable lessons learned in bringing a ML system to deployment.

## Bio
Chris Tennant is an accelerator physicist who earned his Ph.D. while doing research at Jefferson Lab in 2006, and has been employed as staff scientist ever since. For most of his career his research has been in the area of energy recovery linacs for a broad range of applications; from electron cooling for electron-ion colliders, to free-electron lasers for lithography and defense. More recently his interests have shifted toward practical applications of machine learning to improve beam operations.
