# Tuning Floating Point Precision (Using Dynamic and Temporal Locality Program Information)
## Costin Iancu (Computational Research Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory)

## Abstract 
Tuning the width of data used in scientific computations has been shown to lead to performance, energy and memory bandwidth improvements. For most of our codes, this is equivalent to tuning the precision of floating point operations.  Given the current hardware specialization trends which often introduce fixed functional units on narrow data types, and the fact that extreme heterogeneity seems to be one of the ASCR strategic directions, we expect some application teams to try to tune the precision of floating point data used in their simulations.  This talk summarizes the artifacts of a year long NERSC/CRD research collaboration. In the first part, we will discuss tools and techniques to reason about errors and their magnitude in scientific codes. In the second part of the talk we will introduce techniques we have developed to enable precision tuning of full application codes. Our automated procedure combines application “feature” extraction from execution traces with a hierarchical search strategy that combines static and dynamic (backtrace, temporal locality) information. When tuning two NERSC codes (CCTBX - Computational Crystallography Toolbox and AMReX-Combustion/PeleC) we attained performance improvements up to 40\% and were able to lower the precision of a good fraction of the total operation count. We will conclude with a discussion of several research directions opened by this preliminary investigation.

## Bios
Costin Iancu is a Senior Staff Scientist in the Computational Research Division at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory
