# Making the invisible visible
## Srigokul Upadhyayula (Advanced Bioimaging Center, UC Berkeley)

## Abstract 
Direct physiological observation of subcellular dynamics is now feasible using the Lattice Light-Sheet Microscopy. It is a transformative imaging technology that spans the relevant scales in space and time because of the wide resolution range and large volumetric acquisition capability. This new imaging method allows us to record dynamics at a scale of nanometers and milliseconds, determine their consequences at a scale of microns and hours, and visualize their long-term outcome at a scale of up to several millimeters over several days. 

I’ll present our past work on combined lattice light sheet microscopy with adaptive optics to achieve (Science, 2018), across large multicellular volumes, noninvasive aberration-free imaging of subcellular dynamics in vivo. Next, I’ll discuss the combination of lattice light-sheet with the physical expansion of samples (Expansion Microscopy) that enables scalable super-resolution volumetric imaging of large tissues (Science, 2019) including the complete fly brain, columns of mouse brain – datasets spanning several hundred terabytes. Finally, I will introduce our next-generation microscope design– dubbed the “Swiss army knife microscope”, which combines at least ten different modes of imaging with integrated light paths. In essence, this new microscope is designed to seamlessly switch between modes of imaging in order to alleviate the tradeoffs related to resolution, speed, invasiveness and imaging depth, which precludes any single optical microscopy to function optimally for a diverse set of biological specimens.

## Bio
Gokul Upadhyayula uses applied engineering and basic science to build cutting-edge, adaptive optical multi-functional microscopes to enable imaging across scales spanning several orders of magnitude in space and time. As the leading scientific director at UC Berkeley’s Advanced BioImaging Center (ABC), Gokul's vision is to provide state-of-the-art microscopy, and dedicated human and hardware resources capable of handling terabyte to petabyte scale projects. In addition to this, his mission is to develop robust, open source computational workflows that allow scientists to extract biologically meaningful insights. His earlier work includes studying the charge transfer properties of cyanine dyes and bio-inspired electrets using ultra-fast femtosecond spectroscopy during his time at University of California, Riverside; and using lattice light-sheet microscopy (LLSM) with high temporal and spatial resolution at the molecular level during his postdoctoral research at Harvard Medical School / Boston Children’s Hospital.
