# Data skeletons: IO workload characterization for the modern age
## Avani Wildani (Emory University)
  
## Abstract
In a not-too-distant future, our devices will not just be networked, but share huge volumes of data required for instantaneous and vital decisions. Technologies such as self-driving cars, smart cities and homes, and augmented reality all depend on handling massive quantities of data quickly and reliably. Understanding the characteristics of workloads such as these will be critical to reducing storage costs and making the cloud of tomorrow accessible and equitable for all.  All storage systems exist to serve some group of users and applications. Tuning a storage system is a delicate balance between reliability, availability, security, performance spread over the users, or workloads, that the system serves. For cloud storage, elasticity is a crucial factor, but misconfiguration in reactive storage tuning has been cited to be a leading cause of production failures. Transferring and transforming provisioning insights to match dynamic workloads will break ground for system improvements spanning from the power footprint to cache management to selecting an appropriate reliability configuration.  This talk covers the current state of workload-aware design along with our current work to improve storage provisioning and trace characterization.
  
## Bio:
Dr. Avani Wildani is an Assistant Professor in Computer Science and Neuroscience and co-PI of the SimBioSys lab at Emory University. Her group focuses on information models in cloud and communication systems, particularly those with biological connections, with a long term goal of categorizing neural information.  Prior to that, she was a Pioneer Postdoctoral Fellow in computational neuroscience at the Salk Institute for Biological Sciences.  She earned her B.S. in Computer Science and Mathematics at Harvey Mudd College and her Ph.D. in Computer Science at UC Santa Cruz under Dr. Ethan Miller.   Her interests are centered around information storage and retrieval across different storage models, with application domains including access prediction, data deduplication, archival economics, power management, wireless mesh networks, auditory receptive field characterization, and pollution monitoring.
