# Robust prediction of high-dimensional dynamical systems using Koopman deep networks
## Omri Azencot (Ben-Gurion University)

## Abstract 
We present a new deep learning approach for the analysis and processing of time series data. At the core of our work is the Koopman operator which fully encodes a nonlinear dynamical system. Unlike the majority of Koopman-based models, we consider dynamics for which the Koopman operator is invertible. We exploit the structure of these systems to design a novel Physically-Constrained Learning (PCL) model that takes into account the inverse dynamics while penalizing for inverse prediction. Our architecture is composed of an autoencoder component and two Koopman layers for the dynamics and their inverse. To motivate our network design, we investigate the connection between invertible Koopman operators and pointwise maps, and our analysis yields a loss term which we employ in practice. To evaluate our work, we consider several challenging nonlinear systems including the pendulum, fluid flows on curved domains and real climate data. We compare our approach to several baseline methods, and we demonstrate that it yields the best results for long time predictions and in noisy settings.

## Bio
Omri Azencot is a Senior Lecturer (Assistant Professor) in the Computer Science Department at the Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Israel. His research interests include deep learning, sequence models, and dynamical systems. Omri did his postdoc at the Department of Mathematics at the University of California, Los Angeles, hosted by Prof. Andrea Bertozzi. He completed his PhD at the Computer Science Department at the Technion -- Israel Institute of Technology, under the supervision of Prof. Mirela Ben-Chen. Prior to that, he obtained a BSc in computer science and a BSc in mathematics, both from the Technion. Omri’s research has been supported by an Adams Fellowship of the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities, a Zuckerman Postdoctoral Fellowship, and a Marie Sklodowska-Curie Actions International Fellowship.
