# Weights & Biases: system of record to track, optimize, and reproduce ML research
## Chris Van Pelt and Charles Frye (Weights & Biases)

## Abstract 
Weights & Biases builds developer tools to track & monitor machine learning experiments, visualize metrics, and share results with rich dashboards and reports.  The W&B team, including Chris Van Pelt (Co-Founder) and Charles Frye (Deep Learning Educator) will join us for an interactive product demo and discussion of the following topics:

 - How W&B ensures reproducibility by tracking and organizing experiments, datasets, and model versions--all in a unified system of record
 - W&B's Sweeps tool, which makes launching, monitoring, and recording large, distributed hyperparameter searches elegantly simple
 - W&B Reports, where researchers can create rich, interactive documents to showcase their work
 - W&B Product Roadmap
 - Next steps: getting started with W&B

## Bio
Chris Van Pelt is a co-founder of Weights & Biases. In 2009, Chris founded Figure Eight/CrowdFlower. Over the past 10 years, Chris has dedicated his career to optimizing ML workflows and teaching ML practitioners, making machine learning more accessible to all. Chris has worked as a studio artist, computer scientist, and web engineer.  He studied both art and computer science at Hope College.

Charles Frye, PhD is a Deep Learning Educator at Weights & Biases. Charles did his thesis work on the loss surfaces of deep neural networks in the Redwood Center for Theoretical Neuroscience at the University of California, Berkeley with Professors Michael DeWeese and Kristofer Bouchard, graduating in 2020.
