# Ceph Storage at CERN
## Dan van der Ster, Pablo Llopis Sanmillan (CERN)

## Abstract
Ceph and its Reliable Autonomic Distributed Object Store (RADOS) offers a scale out storage solution for block storage (RBD), object storage (S3 and SWIFT) and filesystems (CephFS). The key technologies enabling Ceph include CRUSH, a mechanism for defining and implementing failure domains, and the mature Object Storage Daemons (OSDs), which provide a reliable storage backend via replication or erasure coding. CERN has employed Ceph for its on-prem cloud infrastructures since 2013. As of 2021, its storage group operates more than ten clusters totaling over 50 petabytes for cloud, Kubernetes, and HPC use-cases. This talk will introduce Ceph and its key concepts, and describe how CERN uses Ceph in practice. It will include recent highlights related to high-throughput particle physics data taking and SLURM storage optimization.

## Bio(s)
Dan manages the Ceph storage at CERN in Geneva, Switzerland. He has participated actively in its community since 2013 and was one of the first to demonstrate its scalability up to multi-10s of petabytes. Dan is a regular speaker at Open Infrastructure events, previously acted as Academic Liaison to the original Ceph Advisory Board, and has a similar role in the current Ceph Board. Dan earned a PhD in Distributed Systems at the University of Victoria, Canada in 2008.

Pablo is a computer engineer at CERN, where he manages the IT department’s HPC service. He provides HPC support to both engineers of the Accelerator Technology Sector and to theoretical physicists. Pablo works on improving the performance of their HPC workloads, and on other projects such as the automation of operational tasks of the infrastructure. He holds a Ph.D. in computer science from University Carlos III of Madrid. In the past he has also collaborated with Argonne National Laboratory and IBM Research Zurich on HPC and cloud-related topics. His main areas of interest include high performance computing, storage systems, power efficiency, and distributed systems.
