# funcX: Federated FaaS for Scientific Computing
## Ryan Chard (Data Science and Learning Division - Argonne National Laboratory)

## Abstract
Exploding data volumes and velocities, new computational methods and platforms, and ubiquitous connectivity demand new approaches to computation in the sciences. These new approaches must enable computation to be mobile, so that, for example, it can occur near data, be triggered by events (e.g., arrival of new data), be offloaded to specialized accelerators, or run remotely where resources are available. They also require new design approaches in which monolithic applications can be decomposed into smaller components, that may in turn be executed separately and on the most suitable resources. To address these needs we present funcX—a distributed function as a service (FaaS) platform that enables flexible, scalable, and high-performance remote function execution. funcX's endpoint software can transform existing clusters and supercomputers into function serving systems, while funcX's cloud-hosted service provides transparent, secure, and reliable function execution across a federated ecosystem of endpoints. We demonstrate the use of funcX with several scientific case studies and show how it integrates into the wider Globus ecosystem to enable secure, fire-and-forget scientific computation.

## Bio
Ryan Chard joined Argonne in 2016 as a Maria Goeppert Mayer Fellow and then as an Assistant Computer Scientist in the Data Science and Learning Division. He now works with Argonne, UChicago, and Globus to develop cyberinfrastructure to enable scientific research. In particular, he works on the Globus Flows platform to create reliable data analysis pipelines and the funcX service to enable function serving for HPC. He has a Ph.D. in computer science and an M.Sc. from Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand.
