# Scaling Out HPC with On-Premise Performance in the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
## Luiz DeRose, Ph.D. (Oracle)

## Abstract
The continuous increase in complexity and scale of high-end systems, together with the evolving diversity of processor options, are forcing computational scientists to face system characteristics that can significantly impact the performance and scalability of applications. HPC users need a system infrastructure that can adapt to their workload needs, rather than having to constantly redesign their applications to adapt to new systems. In this talk, I will discuss the current trends in computer architecture and the implications in the development of HPC applications and programming and middleware environments. I will present the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI), which provides availability, resiliency, and performance at scale, so HPC users can easily choose the best option for their workloads, and will discuss hybrid on-prem/cloud options, which facilitate workload migration from on-premise to the cloud. I will finish the presentation with a discussion of some of the challenges and open research problems that still need to be addressed in this area.

## Bio
Dr. Luiz DeRose is a Director of Cloud Engineering for HPC at Oracle. Before joining Oracle, he was a Sr. Science Manager at AWS, and a Senior Principal Engineer and the Programming Environments Director at Cray. Dr. DeRose has a Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He has more than 25 years of high-performance computing experience and a deep knowledge of programming and middleware environments for HPC. Dr. DeRose has eight patents and has published more than 50 peer-review articles in scientific journals, conferences, and book chapters, primarily on the topics of compilers and tools for high performance computing.
