# The Open Catalyst 2020 (OC20) Dataset and Community Challenges
## Zachary Ulissi (Carnegie Mellon University),<br>Larry Zitnick (Facebook AI Research)

## Abstract
The Open Catalyst Project aims to develop new ML methods and models to accelerate the catalyst
simulation process for renewable energy technologies and improve our ability to predict
activity/selectivity across catalyst composition. To achieve that in the short term we need
participation from the ML community in solving key challenges in catalysis. One path to
interaction is the development of grand challenge datasets that are representative of common
challenges in catalysis, large enough to excite the ML community, and large enough to take
advantage of and encourage advances in deep learning models. Similar datasets have had a large
impact in small molecule drug discovery, organic photovoltaics, and inorganic crystal structure
prediction. We present the first open dataset from this effort on thermochemical intermediates
across stable multi-metallic and p-block doped surfaces. This dataset includes full-accuracy DFT
calculations across 53 elements and their binary/ternary materials, various low-index facets.
Adsorbates span 56 common reaction intermediates with relevance to carbon, oxygen, and nitrogen
thermal and electrochemical reactions. Off-equilibrium structures are also generated and included
to aid in machine learning force field design and fitting. Collectively, this dataset represents
the largest systematic dataset that bridges organic and inorganic chemistry and will enable a new
generation of catalyst structure/property relationships. Fixed train/test splits that represent
common chemical challenges and an open challenge website will be discussed to encourage
competition and buy-in from the ML community.

## Bio
Zachary Ulissi is an Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering at Carnegie Mellon University. He
works on the development and application of high-throughput computational methods in catalysis,
machine learning models to predict their properties, and active learning methods to guide these
systems. Applications include energy materials, CO2 utilization, fuel cell development, and
additive manufacturing. He has been recognized nationally for his work including the 3M
Non-Tenured Faculty Award and the AIChE 35-under-35 award among others.

Larry Zitnick is a research scientist at Facebook AI Research in Menlo Park. His current areas of
interest include scientific applications of AI, language and vision, and object recognition. He
serves on the board of the Common Visual Data Foundation whose mission is to aid the computer
vision community in creating datasets and competitions. Previously, he spent 12 great years at
Microsoft Research, and obtained a PhD in Robotics from CMU's Robotics Institute.
