# Composable Platforms for Scientific Computing: Experiences and Outcomes
## Brian Werts and Erik Gough (Rosen Center for Advanced Computing, Purdue University)

## Abstract
The Geddes Composable Platform is an on-premise Kubernetes-based private cloud hosted at Purdue University that’s designed to meet the increased demand for scientific data analysis and to promote "SciOps" — the application of DevOps principles in scientific computing. The platform has supported research groups and data science initiatives at Purdue, enabling as many as sixty users from a variety of scientific domains. In this seminar, we will give a technical overview of the platform and its components, summarize the usage patterns, and describe the scientific use cases the platform enables. Some examples of services deployed through Geddes include JupyterHubs, science gateways, databases, ML-based image classifiers, and web-based BLAST database searches. The same technology behind Geddes is found in Purdue’s new XSEDE resource named Anvil, which provides composable computing capabilities to the broader national research community.

## Bio
Erik Gough is a lead computational scientist in the Research Computing department at Purdue University. He has been building, maintaining and using large scale cyberinfrastructure for scientific computing at Purdue since 2007. Gough is a technical leader on multiple NSF funded projects, including an NSF CC* award to build the Geddes Composable Platform.

Brian Werts is the lead engineer for the design and implementation of Purdue’s Geddes Composable Platform and a HIPAA aligned Hadoop cluster for researchers that leverages Kubernetes to help facilitate reproducibility and scalability of data science workflows.

