# The Next Generation of High Performance Computing: HPC-2.0
## Gregory Kurtzer, CEO of Ctrl IQ, Inc. and Executive Director of Rocky Enterprise Software Foundation / Rocky Linux

## Abstract
We’ve been using the same base architecture for building HPC systems for almost 30 years and while the capabilities of our systems have increased considerably, we still use the same flat and monolithic architecture of the 1990’s to build our systems. What would the next generation architecture look like? How do we leverage containers to do computing of complex workflows while orchestrating not only jobs, but data? How do we bridge HPC into the 2020’s and make optimal use of multi-clusters and federate these systems into a larger resource to unite on-prem, multi-prem, cloud, and multi-cloud? How do we integrate with these resources in a cloud-native compatible manner supporting CI/CD, DevOps, DevSecOps, compute portals, GUIs, and even mobile? This isn’t a bunch of shoelace and duct-tape on top of legacy HPC, this is an entirely new way to think about HPC infrastructure. This is a glimpse into HPC-2.0, coming later in Q1 of 2022.

## Bio
Gregory M. Kurtzer is a 20+ year veteran in Linux, open source, and high performance computing. He is well known in the HPC space for designing scalable and easy to manage secure architectures for innovative performance intensive computing while working for the U.S. Department of Energy and joint appointment to UC Berkeley. Greg founded and led several large open source projects such as CentOS Linux, the Warewulf and Perceus cluster toolkits, the container system Singularity, and most recently, the successor to CentOS, Rocky Linux. Greg’s first startup was acquired almost 2 years ago and now he is working on software infrastructure, including Rocky Linux as well as building a cloud native, cloud hybrid, federated orchestration platform called Fuzzball.
